---
layout: post
title:  "Values"
date:   2015-08-01 00:00:00
categories: cultural
---
<h2>“It's not hard to make decisions when you know what your values are.” ― Roy Disney</h2>

I learned a lot about myself through this week's topic. I feel as though I've always known what I consider important in my life but I've never had to put it into words. Although I feel as though I connect with a lot of the values, thinking about the times when I was the happiest and the times when I was upset, it becomes pretty clear what my most important values are.

I grew up in a house where academic achievement was priority. When I think about my youth, I mostly recall being sent to afterschool programs or tutoring sessions even when money was tight. Also, I have an older brother who always excelled academically and seemingly effortlessly. So when I look at my own average academica achievements, I have always felt inferior. So although it does not bring me happiness, achievement has always been apart of my life. Achievement would be one of my values that I feel sometimes ties me down.

I've always found that when I am with friends, everything can seem fun. Just a late night playing videogames would become a memory that I cherish. I also remember a time where I was stressed about an assignment in school to the point of tears and my friend being there to calm me down. She had made me realize that school wasn't my entire life even though it seemed so at the time. I suppose I have always felt that no matter what is happening in my life, good/bad, I can always share with my friends and grow from it. Friendship is one of my most important values.

When I entered the workforce and felt as though I gained some independence, I quickly realized how much I valued responsibility and honesty. If something goes wrong, I feel as though whoever was involved should own up to it. It's the same when something goes right. Credit should be given where credit is due. I had felt a responsibilty to perform up to my position expectations. I have always taken my work seriously.

I realize that DBC is going to be stressful and there will be topics that I will not understand right away. Although this will bring me down, I know I will be able to rely on my friends for support and myself to put in the time and effort to get on track. I feel as though DBC has created an honest environment. Even though I feel nervous when exposing my weaknesses, I can still share them with my cohorts. Now that the onsite portion of DBC is only 2 weeks away, my nervousness is slowly being overshadowed by my excitement.
