---
layout: post
title:  "Conflict"
date:   2015-08-07 00:00:00
categories: cultural
---
Everyone grew up in a different environment and thus each has different opinions. Whenever those opinions clash, you have a conflict. Overall I would say that I am a pretty passive person. When I am with my family or friends, since I know them well enough, I can normally predict when and what conflicts may occur. In those cases, unless the other person's opinion will directly effect me, I would normally give in. Obviously, in the work environment, you cannot always avoid conflict.

When I had worked at Citibank, there were many times when I did not see eye-to-eye with my coworkers. Communication was bit difficult since the team that I worked with were across the country. My position consisted of being the bridge between the clients and the loan processors. There would be many times when the Processors were slow in working the file so the clients would start to get upset. I would get as much done on my own as I could to the point where all the processor had to do was submit the loan to the Underwriter for review. The conflict was when the Processor would be unresponsive, causing unnecessary delays.

I would get very frustrated because I had felt unvalued by the processors. I had understood that they were busy as well so I took the time to organize the loan documents and make sure documents were completed correctly. When I helped lessened their workload, I believed that they should have returned the favor by getting the file in line for review as quickly as possible. I felt a responsibility to the clients to get their loan approved quickly so it upset me to think that the Processors did not care about client satisfication. It wasn't long before I started to have negative feelings towards certain Processors and thinking that they were lazy and had no pride in their work.

In order to solve the conflict of delays, I had a system where I would send the Processors three emails over three days to work on the file. It was company policy that the Processors were to respond within 24 hours to an email so I was giving them plenty of time. If they responded, that would be the end of the conflict. If the file still did not move down the assembly line, I would contact the processing manager. Once the manager was involved, the files tended to move quickly. If I still had issues, I would get my own manager involved. Since it rarely got to the point were I needed my own manager involved, my manager would jump on the issue in a heartbeat whenever I brought him in.

I believed that the way I handled my work conflict was correct and would not change my actions. I got along well with most of the Processors and had given fair warning to few who were unresponsive before contacting their managers. I was empathetic to their situation when they were overworked but if they didn't say anything to me at all, there was nothing I could do about it.

I learned that in the times when you are having difficulties, you have to tell the other person before it gets to a point where a conflict arises. If you have too much work on your plate or if you don't understand something, you should make it known so that they can help you or at least understand where you are coming from. If you completely ignore someone, nothing will get done.
